# VU SR process renewal

## Consultation process

VU SR consulting is a centralized consulting system, which started its
activities in January 2022, designed to advise Vilnius University
students on academic, social, self-expression opportunities at the
University, LSIC and other issues. The program is chaired by the head of
VU SR counseling and consists of volunteer students studying at Vilnius
University, who have passed the VU SR test of basic social-academic
knowledge and have expressed their motivation to act in the consulting
group.

In 2022-2023, the VU SR consulting group, noting the growing need to
strengthen the activities of the Organization and the University, became
involved in the following processes:

advising students in the context of individual studies while maintaining
a direct relationship with the VU Student Services and Career
Department;

visiting the General Meetings of VU SR subdivisions and presenting
during them the consultation system and the main appeals of students;

informing the regular members of the Organization of the consultation
processes;

the separation of the position of coordinators of social-academic
process affairs of VU SR departments;

cooperation with the VU SR Council in the development of a
methodological document for the consultation process.

During the reference period, the VU SR consulting group consisted of:

- Lijana Savickienė (Head of the Consulting Group, VU KnF)
- Kaspars Japertas (consultant, VU GMC)
- Rokas Stankūnas (consultant, VU KnF)
- Kamilė Leonaitė (consultant, VU KnF)
- Neda Rasimavičiūtė (consultant, VU IF)

## Approval of VU SR Strategic Activity Plan for 2022-2025 and measurement indicators

During the reference period, the period of the VU SR Strategic Activity
Plan valid for the years 2019-2022 ended. During 2022, an updated
activity plan for the next three years was developed in the
organization. On 25^th^ of May 2022, the VU SR Strategic Activity Plan
for 2022-2025 was approved in the VU SR Parliament, which approved the
main strategic projects of the organization:

To achieve high-quality studies and an environment adapted to them. The
student is provided with the opportunity to independently choose the
path of study, providing the necessary academic assistance;

To ensure a strong organization, an effective system for promoting
students\' self-expression works; To bring together a cohesive
university community, an equal relationship is being created between all
members of the community and the Green University.

Also, during this year, impact measurement indicators were agreed and
approved for each strategic direction, which will help to assess the
impact of the achieved goals on students, the organization and the
University community.

## Membership in the organization

This year, the culture of self-reflection continues to develop. In order
to improve in your field and look at whether the goals set have already
been achieved (or perhaps they are still being pursued), it is necessary
to reflect – this process has become systematic in the activities of VU
SR. It is during self-reflection that opportunities are created in the
Organization not only to assess their own development, but also to help
each member operating in the organization to move forward purposefully.
Organized #VUSRReflects weeks, during which the members of the
organization actively reflecting, evaluating their activities in the
organization, their further goals and capabilities. In the structural
formations, based on the concept of the membership path approved by the
Organization last year, larger-scale reflection sessions were organized
every few months within the teams.

## Inclusion of foreign students in the organization

As a result of the war in Ukraine, the number of foreign students at the
University increased and in order to become an even more open
organization, this year we accepted and included more foreign students
than usual in the activities of VU SR at different levels. In raising
our strategic goals, we paid attention not only to adapting the
environment to the participation of foreign students, but also provided
opportunities to take the initiative in organizing VU SR projects, the
largest events, to implement our ideas in the departments; we have
adapted and/or translated a large part of the day-to-day processes, the
organization\'s internal dissemination of information, the main
trainings into English, and we have developed guidelines for bilingual
communication to ensure proper communication with foreign members of the
community.

## Chairpersons programme

This year, the organization continued to carry out an even, year-round
competence development for VU SR chairpersons. For the first time from
the beginning to the end, the VU SR Chairpersons\' Program was tested.
During the program, the most important leadership competencies required
during different periods of the term of office are touched: leadership,
team building, conducting meetings, setting goals, financial and budget
planning, time planning, decision-making, impact self-assessment, and
feedback and reflection.

## VU SR representation platform

Drawing attention to the load of representative coordinators emphasized
annually in the conclusions of the Revision by coordinating the
representatives of the unit and students of the central level, a Virtual
tool of representative coordinators was created – the VU SR
representation platform. This platform is designed to ensure a smoother
process in transmitting information about the meetings that will take
place and have taken place, the dissemination of a unified position of
students through different CSOs and central decision-making structures.
In addition, it can be used to organize more qualitative quantitative
and qualitative research initiated by student representatives.

<!-- ## Updating the rules of procedure of VU SR

VU SR Rules of Procedure was updated in the Parliament during this term
of office. It provides for the principles of work organization using
electronic means of communication, specifies the accounting terms of the
list of members, abandons redundant accounting actions of members
related to the collection and storage of personal data, the Work
Regulations describe the status of VU SR volunteers, the rights and
responsibilities related to it, the Institutional Strengthening Fund is
included, his powers and status in the organization are described and
the procedure for electing Student Representatives to the Senate is
specified - transferring and supplementing the election provisions from
the Rules of Procedure in a separate document. -->
