# Cooperation with VU non-academic units and other organisations

## VU Library

Monthly meetings were held with the VU Library. This was done in order
to gather students\' views on how to improve the VU Library\'s services
to students. There was also cooperation on publicizing events and
training sessions organized by the library for students. Discussions
were held on the possibility of designating areas in the library where
students could leave their unused abstracts. The library\'s activities
have also contributed to the development of a plan for the
implementation of the Open Science Policy Guidelines.

## VU Health and Sports Centre

This year, in cooperation with the VU Health and Sports Centre (SSC),
the activities organised by the SSC were made more accessible to
students. VU SR contributed to the orientation games organised by the
Health and Sports Centre for the VU birthday with organisational
support, participated in the Vilnius University Sports Awards, and
worked together on a project to improve students' physical health.

## Counselling and Training Center

During the reporting period, in cooperation with the Counselling and
Training Center of the Faculty of Philosophy of Vilnius University,
stress management training in Lithuanian and English was implemented for
students during the exam session: \"Tension and stress: how to manage it
during the session?\"

An update of the student registration for counselling sessions was also
launched, addressing the current inefficiency of the registration
system. A meeting was organized with representatives of the Student
Affairs and Career Office to share good practices. We hope that such
changes will help to make it quicker and more convenient for students to
register for psychological counselling.

The organizational changes of the Counselling and Training Center were
also agreed upon in order to give it a better chance to expand as a
central university entity.

## VRK, LiJOT, LSS, NVO coalition, „Žinau, ką renku\", JRA

In the run-up to the municipal council and mayoral elections on 5^th^ of
March 2023, we have signed a cooperation agreement with the High
Electoral Commission of the Republic of Lithuania, the Council of
Lithuanian Youth Organizations, the Lithuanian Students\' Union, the
Coalition of Non-Governmental Organizations, the policy monitoring
initiative \"Žinau ką renku\", and the Youth Affairs Agency, in order to
contribute to a more active participation of young people in the
elections.

In the context of cooperation, we encouraged students to participate in
the elections, especially in the big cities where we live during our
studies, but also in other, smaller municipalities, with the
understanding that they will potentially be the places where we will
create our future workplaces, be invited for residencies or do
internships. We also shared information on how elections are organized
and held, the conditions under which foreign students can take part, how
to decide who to vote for, and we got involved in the main debates of
the mayoral elections of Vilnius City Municipality, raising the most
important issues for students in the city.

## LURK, LKDK ir LSS

Vilnius University Students\' Representation together with the
Lithuanian Students\' Union, the Conference of Rectors of Lithuanian
Universities and the Conference of Directors of Lithuanian Colleges
addressed the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport of the Republic
of Lithuania on the development of the dormitories of higher education
institutions, the possibilities of modernization of the renovation, and
the possibilities of support to the students, and they co-operated in
the exchange of the information on the accommodation of the students and
the vacancies in the dormitories, in order to alleviate sooner the
problem of shortage of the students\' accommodation places.

## Lithuanian University of Health Sciences Students' Representation (LSMU SA) and Resident Council

In cooperation with LSMU SA, the Ministry of Health was approached
regarding the reformation of the Committee for the Formation of the
State Order for the Training of Specialists in the National Health
System, as well as proposals on the legal regulation of the procedure
for clinical practice of dental and oral care students.

## VJOSAS

During the reference period, we participated in VJOSAS meetings, the
Leaders\' Club, VJOSAS Assemblies and close communication and
cooperation on issues of importance and relevance to young people were
maintained: on the situation of students\' accommodation in Vilnius
City - proposals were made to the Vilnius City Youth Council, which
addressed the issue to the Vilnius City Council; on the issue of issuing
potassium iodide tablets to students who have not registered their place
of residence in the Vilnius City Municipality; Neda Žutautaitė, on
behalf of the VJOSAS, was delegated to the working group for the
preparation of the Concept of the Youth Policy of the Vilnius City
Municipality (the Concept has been approved in the municipality, and it
includes the aspects of the Youth Policy in Vilnius that are relevant to
students). VU SR representatives have been elected to the VJOSAS Board
and the Vilnius City Youth Council for the next period of activity, in
order to further contribute to both the functioning of VJOSAS and the
representation of students as a youth group at the municipal level.
