---
outline: [2,4]
---

# Representation in the national space and city government

## Representation in the national space

### Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė*

Participated in relevant meetings of the Seimas Committees of the
Republic of Lithuania, discussing all issues related to higher
education, the social situation of students, and the legal regulation of
particular groups of students (e.g. students with disabilities,
foreigners, or resident students), as well as in debating, proposing,
and expressing the views of students, and providing expert insights.

#### Seimas Committee on Education and Science

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė*

The Committee\'s deliberations have been actively engaged following our
proposal in the previous period to define the social dimension in higher
education, the principles for the development of an alternative entry
route, which should allow access to higher education for
under-represented groups, but not create a situation where the
alternative route simply increases the masses. Following the debate,
amendments to the Law on Science and Studies were adopted, which
consolidate the concept of the development of the social dimension,
provide for the possibility for the state to finance additional measures
of social, academic, informational and financial support, and
consolidate the alternative Second Admissions Queue.

Proposals and comments made during the deliberations on the draft
amendment to the Law on the mechanism of payment for internships for
students during their studies. Unfortunately, suggestions to find ways
to ensure paid internships for students were not taken into account and,
after much opposition, the draft amendment was not approved.

Participation in meetings of the Interim Parliamentary and Academic
Cooperation Group.

#### Seimas Committee on Health (SCH)

*Student representatives – Neda Žutautaitė, Kamilė Marcinkevičiūtė*

During the reporting period, medical students and residents were
represented in order to prevent the approval of a renewed attempt to
introduce an amendment to the draft law proposing that graduates of
publicly funded residency training should be required to complete 2-4
years of 2-4 years of service in regional primary health care
facilities.

It was also involved in the deliberations and discussions on the draft
amendments to the Laws on the Practice of Medicine, the Practice of
Dentistry and the Practice of Oral Health Care, which led to the
approval by the Seimas of the consistent increase in the salaries of
resident doctors, the status of junior and senior resident doctors will
no longer exist, and the concepts of supervisor and mentor have been
introduced.

#### Seimas Committee on Foreign Affairs (FAC)

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė*

During the reporting period, foreign students were represented in the
Parliament\'s Committee on Foreign Affairs in order to create the most
favorable legal framework for foreigners. Our proposals included: to
abolish the restriction for foreigners to work no more than 20 hours per
week; to issue temporary residence permits for up to 6 months for a
period longer than the expected period of study, and to provide students
with an equivalent document for legal stay in the Republic of Lithuania
free of charge during the period of the examination of the application,
or to provide for the right to stay in the territory of the Republic of
Lithuania during the period of the examination; Abolish the legal
provision to acquire at least 40 study credits per year of study; ensure
the right of minors to participate not only in general education, but
also to study in higher education undergraduate and graduate programs in
Lithuania; initiate amendments to the Law on Health Insurance of the
Republic of Lithuania, providing for the payment by the State of the
compulsory health insurance for all foreign students for the period of
their studies. Amendments to the law were adopted in the Seimas, which
removed the restriction on working time during studies, while other
proposals were not approved, dropped or not included. The relevant
proposals were further submitted to the Ministry of Education, Science
and Sport in the preparation of the strategy for attracting and
integrating foreigners.

#### Government of the Republic of Lithuania

*Student representative –Neda Žutautaitė*

During the reporting period, the participants took part in
inter-institutional consultations and plenary sessions of the Government
of the Republic of Lithuania on the amendments to the Law on Science and
Studies. Contributed to the drafting of the Government\'s conclusions on
draft laws and the drafting of the long-term state strategy \"Lithuania
2050\".

#### Ministry of Education, Science and Sport of the Republic of Lithuania (MoESS)

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė*

During the reporting period, it contributed to raising and examining
various issues, participating in consultations and making proposals to
improve higher education.

Active participation in (MoESS) working groups:

##### MoESS Working Group on the Update of the Performance Assessment and Funding Model for Research and Higher Education Institutions**

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė*

During the reporting period, the Ministry of Education, Science and
Sport contributed to the preparation of a procedure for incentive
funding for higher education institutions for the quality of studies,
specific indicators that will serve as the basis for the incentive
system and will form the priorities of higher education institutions for
improving the quality of studies in the aspects of study performance,
internationalization, recruitment of students to scientific, artistic
and study activities, graduates\' success in career development, and the
accessibility of studies.

As a result of the Working Group\'s discussions, the Minister\'s Order
on the Description of the Procedure for the Evaluation of the
Achievements of Study Activities of Scientific and Study Institutions,
the Allocation of State Budget Incentive Funding for the Achievement of
Study Achievements, the Provision of the Data Necessary for the Conduct
of the Evaluation of the Achievements of Study Achievements and the
Procedure for Determining the Weighting of the Weighting of the Criteria
of the Assessment Criteria of the Achievements of the Achievements of
Science and Study Institutions has already been drawn up and adopted.

##### MoESS Working group on the preparation of the Social Dimension Plan

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė*

Initiated the development of a plan for the social dimension in higher
education, following VU SR\'s earlier proposal to include it in the
implementation plan for the provisions of the Government Program and the
adoption of amendments to the Law on Science and Studies, which obliges
the Ministry to approve the priorities for the development of social
dimensions.

A collection of foreign experiences in the development of social
dimension plans, data and analysis of the current situation of
under-represented groups in Lithuania. Existing measures and barriers
faced by under-represented groups were analyzed. An initial version of
the plan was drafted, the basis of which was presented at the Social
Dimension Conference organized by VU SR and the Ministry.

##### MoESS Working Group on the establishment of the 2024 competition queues

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė*

Active participation in the working group preparing the mechanisms for
the 2024 competitive queues for admissions to higher education, as the
changes to the Laws on Education and on Science and Higher Education
from 2024 onwards will change the conditions for admission to colleges
and universities, and a Second Competitive Queue will be created for
under-represented groups in higher education. In the Working Group, we
are proposing a possible mechanism for the establishment of competition
queues to ensure maximum fluidity, transparency and equity in terms of
the social dimension.

##### MoESS Working Group on the development of guidelines for the professional development of teaching staff in higher education

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė*

As part of the implementation of the 18th Government Program Action
Plan, a working group has been set up within the Ministry of Education,
Science and Sport to develop/update guidelines for the qualification
development of higher education teaching staff. The working group
evaluated the current guidelines, proposed changes in the context of the
guidelines on the development of intercultural competences and proposed
a fundamental review of the career model for teachers, the balance of
requirements for academic staff, and the role of pedagogical competences
in them.

##### MoESS Working Group on Social Security Guarantees for Doctoral Students

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė*

The Working Group was convened to submit proposals to the Minister of
Education, Science and Sport on improving the legal regulation of social
guarantees for doctoral students. During the working group\'s
several-month-long activities, the current legal regulation of doctoral
studies, especially the part concerning social guarantees for doctoral
students, was thoroughly examined, as well as good foreign experiences
and general trends in the organization of the doctoral study cycle. The
following proposals were refined: to increase the scope of project
funding for the RCL; to encourage the recruitment of PhD students in
research programs and projects, either by creating a compulsory
condition for project funding or by awarding additional points in the
evaluation; to provide for a more flexible model of the doctoral program
in terms of duration, and to reinforce the condition for the recruitment
of doctoral students in the performance of research and study
institutions or in the evaluation of doctoral programs. A proposal for a
future vision is to pilot a grant funding model to ensure social
security for doctoral students through recruitment.

##### MoESS Working Group on a strategy for the attraction and integration of foreigners and Lithuanians abroad

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė*

As part of the implementation of the 18th Government Program\'s Action
Plan, a working group has been set up in the Ministry of Education,
Science and Sport to develop a strategy for attracting and integrating
foreigners and Lithuanians abroad. The working group has identified all
the problems that foreigners currently face when coming to live and
study in Lithuania, from visa procedures to social and health care,
access to services in English, and opportunities to learn Lithuanian.
From these current challenges, a draft strategic document has been
prepared, which will include the overall direction and objectives of the
country to attract foreigners, as well as financial tools and incentives
(scholarships, loans, etc.), migration policy issues, dissemination of
information, expectations of quality of internationalization of studies,
accessible or free health insurance, priorities and measures for an open
labor market and Lithuanian language education.

**In addition to the working groups, the MoESS also cooperated with:**

- Continuing to consistently make proposals to widen the range of
    beneficiaries of the disability scholarship and to merge the several
    types of scholarships that currently exist in order to reduce the
    administrative burden on student(s);

- As part of the renewal of the system of state-supported loans, in
    order to be more responsive to students with difficult financial
    situations, a proposal to improve the system is being prepared
    together with the National Study Fund;

- We made proposals to monitor the quality and cost of student
    placements to ensure reimbursement;

- Proposals and updated funding arrangements for student civic,
    scientific, entrepreneurial, creative and sporting projects;

- The request for dormitories was made following the challenges faced
    in September, when higher education institutions could not
    accommodate all the student(s) they wanted. Negotiations on
    mechanisms to reimburse part of the rent for students, support for
    HEIs to develop dormitory infrastructure;

- On the issue of the Board of the National Study Foundation - to
    include two student representatives on the Board. Although the
    regulations were not updated by the Government Resolution, the MoESS
    delegated the President of VU SR as a representative to the Board.

### Ministry of Health of the Republic of Lithuania (MoH)

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė, Kamilė Marcinkevičiūtė*

The VU Residents\' Council continued to actively participate in the
process of development of the model of tiered competences in order to
improve the quality of residency studies and to ensure the international
quality standards of medical studies. It contributed to the
consideration of the duration of residency study programs, the
introduction of minimum professional practice duration indicators and
the introduction of a new resident mentor. Participation in the
deliberations on the revision of the remuneration of resident(s) planned
in the Law on Medical Practice continued up to the stage of the
amendment of the Law.

Strongly opposed position on an initiative in the Seimas Committee on
Health Affairs to restrict the free choice of residents after their
studies by providing for several years of post-graduation service in
public Lithuanian personal health care institutions.

Initiated interviews, meetings and strong opposition to the reshaping of
the Committee for the Formation of the National Commissioning Committee
for the Training of National Health System Professionals, initiated by
the Ministry of Health, which unjustifiably removed the direct
representatives of the student(s) in the composition, and created new
expert councils, whose activities have been expanded to include planning
the demand for all the health sciences, not only in the residencies. It
was also not agreed that the representatives of higher education
student(s) in the expert council should be replaced by representatives
of the Lithuanian Students\' Union, as the Student Representation of
Vilnius University is not part of the Lithuanian Students\' Union and
has no mandate to represent the students of Vilnius University. The
proposals were not taken into account by the Minister of Health, and the
changes in the training of health professionals were implemented without
the support of all organizations representing health science students.
VU SR representatives are included in the expert panels.

### Ministry of National Defense of the Republic of Lithuania (MoND)

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė*

As the Ministry of National Defense initiates the reform of
conscription, VU SR is actively involved in monitoring the ever-renewed
proposals and providing students\' opinions, as one of the axes of the
reform is to include students in the lists of compulsory initial
military service.

In response to the proposals, we have categorically opposed the
interruption of studies due to conscription for compulsory initial
military service and its incompatibility with academic processes. We
encourage the MoND to take measures to encourage voluntary service, to
make it more flexible in order to attract students, to provide
opportunities for internships in the Lithuanian Armed Forces, and to
consider alternative ways of performing military service, without
removing the possibility of postponing initial compulsory military
service for studies. It is noted that we also see the strengthening of
societal resilience as an important objective in strengthening national
security, from resistance to disinformation to emergency skills, which
is currently not reflected in the proposals.

### Study Quality Assessment Centre (SQAC)

**Student Forum** – Informal working group of the Centre for Quality
Assessment of Studies, including representatives of organizations
representing the interests of students of Lithuanian higher education
institutions.

During the reporting period, a student forum meeting was held to discuss
the quality of studies from the perspective of the study participants
and the meaning and challenges of student(s) involvement in the
evaluation processes of the SQAC\'s courses and institutions.

SQAC This year, a student representative delegated by VU SR is included
in the activities of the Appeals Commission. The Commission examines
appeals submitted by higher education institutions against the decisions
of the SQAC on study programs, as well as on the evaluation and
assessment of the possibility to carry out studies in a related field.

The SQAC has been asked about the quality of internships undertaken by
students during their studies, encouraging the SQAC to pay attention,
collect data and monitor the organization and quality assurance of
internships in higher education institutions.

### Lithuanian University Rectors\' Conference (LURC)

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė*

During the reporting period, the Conference of Rectors of Lithuanian
Universities was involved in the meetings of the Conference of Rectors
of Lithuanian Universities on topical issues and the issues discussed
therein, such as the educational (pedagogical) competences and
professional growth paths of lecturers, the support provided by
universities to the Ukrainian refugee students, researchers and
professors, and the attraction and retention of foreign students. The
LURC Scientific Committee was presented with a study conducted by VU SR
on students\' research activities, their motivation to participate in
them and the existing tools and barriers. LURC and the Ministry of
Education, Science and Sport were consulted on measures to develop
dormitory infrastructure and discussed in the context of the reform of
compulsory initial military service.

### Lithuanian Research Council (LRC)

*Student representative – Neda Žutautaitė*

During the reporting period, the LRC was repeatedly asked to support
student-organized scientific events, with the aim of encouraging and
funding high-level student-organized scientific events, regardless of
the year or level of the student organizing them. In response to
repeated appeals from VU SR together with Vilnius University, LRC has
expanded the means of support for academic associations, so that from
now on, science and science promotion events organized by students of
any level and form of study will be eligible for LRC funding.

## Representation in the city government

### Vilnius City Municipality and the Youth affair Council (YAC)**

During the reporting period, the issue of the accommodation situation of
students was raised at the Vilnius City Municipality Youth Council, and
a position paper was prepared by the YAC and submitted to the Municipal
Council. The President of VU SR was delegated as a youth representative
to the working group that drafted the Concept of the Youth Policy of
Vilnius City Municipality and is currently elected by the Union of
Vilnius Youth Organizations to the Vilnius Youth Council.
