# International Cooperation and Conferences

## ARQUS

In the ARQUS network, cooperation between student representatives took
place. Two representatives of VU SR, Dominyka Goldbergaitė and Lukas
Krasauskas, participated in the activities and meetings of the ARQUS
Student Council.

Representatives delegated by VU SR participated in the ARQUS annual
conference held at the University of Graz in Austria. During it, the
representative delegated by VU SR, together with a student
representative of Wroclaw University in Poland, gave a speech about the
involvement of students in the activities of ARQUS, the paths of the
Alliance\'s development visible to the eyes of students. During the
conference, the student council adopted a resolution on the offsetting
of competences acquired in an informal way.

On May 3^rd^, the representatives of VU SR met with Manuel João Costa,
Vice-Rector for Student Affairs and Pedagogical Innovations at the
University of Minho in Portugal, during the meeting, the students,
together with the Vice-Rector, discussed about the involvement of
students in the university\'s governing bodies, the improvement of the
pedagogical competencies of teachers and the integration of first-year
students. In the activities of ARQUS WP4 (Student agora),
representatives delegated by VU SR were engaged in discussions about the
networks of mentors, students - ambassadors, the writing of the
introductory package for first-year students, which will operate between
universities.

## Conferences

- This year, during the visit of the King and Queen of Belgium to
Lithuania and Vilnius University, VU SR together with the President of
the Republic of Lithuania Gitanas Nausėda and the First Lady Diana
Nausėdienė contributed to the implementation of their visit to Vilnius
University and the meeting with VU students. During the meeting with the
Kings of Belgium and the First Couple of Lithuania, students from
different departments of the University discussed biodiversity and
climate change, women\'s economic empowerment, mental health problems in
education and the role of universities in shaping a sustainable society.

- Last spring, we were one of the 13 delegates who had the opportunity
to observe the UNESCO World Higher Education Conference held in
Barcelona on an official platform, where representatives of
universities, organizations assessing the quality of studies, the
private sector, youth, NGOs and other fields from all over the world met
to discuss the trends, challenges and futures of higher education: from
the role of universities in the society of the future, academic mobility
to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals and access to
science for all.

- In celebration of the European Year of Youth, at the invitation of
the European Commission Representation in Lithuania, we had the
opportunity to participate in the Brussels Economic Forum, which focused
on the economy for future generations. To identify the main challenges
of the European economy and discuss priorities. This year, they have
provided flexible working conditions and social guarantees for all young
people and lifelong learning -- without which social and economic
progress cannot be imagined.

- The celebration of the European Year of Youth also organized youth
meetings with Eurocommissioners from different fields on the initiative
of the EC. In one of them - \"Measuring what matters: looking beyond
GDP\" with P. Gentiloni, representatives of VU SR were also invited to
participate. The meeting focused on challenges such as climate change,
poverty and inequality, health care and well-being, and how, from a
young person\'s perspective, we would see opportunities to promote
further economic progress in states in sustainable and responsive ways
to today\'s challenges.

- The Social Inclusion & Engagement in Mobility (SiEM) conference is
another international conference, where representatives of VU SR
participated in the aim of delving into the inclusion of more vulnerable
groups in mobility. The conference discussed the more vulnerable groups
in mobility, the barriers they face, and the tools developed during the
workshop that could better respond to the emerging financial,
accommodation, accessibility, disability-adaptability, and openness to
different student groups.
