# Representation at VU

## VU Board

*Student representatives -- Neda Žutautaitė, Justinas Kondratas*

VU Board -- the governing body of the University, which supervises
whether the activities and management of the University are in line with
the mission, vision, values and principles of the University, general
academic interests, requirements for publicity and accountability to the
public established in the Statute.

During the reference period in the VU Council, we discussed the results
of the institutional evaluation of Vilnius University, the situation of
foreign students at Vilnius University, the state of VU information
systems and possible future solutions, the training of teachers at the
University, examined the issues of student admission and infrastructure,
and participated in strategic planning sessions. The main lines of the
Council\'s activities in 2023 highlighted:

- Further improvement of the budgeting model;

- Monitoring of the implementation of the VU Strategic Activity Plan
    for 2021--2025 and the annual activity plan 2023;

- Anticipation of the infrastructure, organizational and financial
    measures necessary for the development of pedagogical studies and
    educational research at VU, including further ensuring the
    harmonious process of development of VU Šiauliai Academy;

- Increasing the internationality and interdisciplinarity of study
    programs and research;

- Monitoring of VU information technology infrastructure renewal and
    development projects;

- Investments in sustainable energy and monitoring of the
    implementation of projects for the sustainable development of energy
    infrastructure;

- Implementation of measures to ensure the continuity of VU\'s
    activities in conditions of increased risk and their monitoring.

This year, the tradition of the annual student report was started to be
developed in the University Council -- the President of VU SR shared the
most important insights from the current issues of students\' life at
the university, covering both the issues of quality of studies,
individualization and practices, paying more attention to international
study experience, involvement of students in scientific activities,
quality assurance of doctoral studies and the University, which responds
to the needs of students and focuses on the principles of greenery
infrastructure priorities.

## VU Senate

*VU Senate Student representatives:*

*Senate Board - -- Vanesa Ražinskytė*

*Committee on Studies -- Simonas Granskas, Julija Jarutytė, Klėja
Merčaitytė, Lijana Savickienė*

*In the Committee on Quality and Development -- Anelė Dromantaitė,
Dominyka Goldbergaitė, Vanesa Ražinskytė*

*In the Scientific Committee -- Daniel Šematovič, Greta Zaburaitė*

The VU Senate is the governing body of the University consisting of
members of the academic community of VU. The Senate is responsible for
supervising and improving the quality of studies, fostering freedom of
culture, science, research and teaching at the University. The work of
the VU Senate is organized by the Senate Panel, which considers the
agendas of the VU Senate and submits proposals to them, is responsible
for the managerial part of the work, but does not take any decisions.
The work of the Senate is divided into 3 main areas of activity. The
Committees on Studies, Science and Quality and Development shall examine
the issues relevant to their field of activity and submit their
conclusions for approval to the VU Senate. During the reporting period,
the outgoing training of the VU Senate took place.

This year, the new Composition of the Senate began its work, a new
President of the Senate was elected, and the number of student
representatives (from 8 to 9) also increased exponentially due to
changes in the composition of the Senate. Also, for the first time, the
vice-chairwoman of one of the Senate committees, the Study Committee,
became a student representative.

For students, the most important issues discussed in the Senate are:

Resolution: Updated Vilnius University Study Regulations

Benefits for students: The updated study regulations enshrine the
concept of individual studies, which allows to better respond to the
individual needs of students in the study process and to individualize
their studies, in each bachelor\'s and integral study program up to 60
ECTS credits will be distinguished for this purpose. Students will have
the opportunity to expand their study network with interdisciplinary
subjects, to take advantage of the opportunities of mobility windows.

Resolution: The concept of teacher education was approved

Benefits for students: With this concept, the University undertakes to
mobilize all available creative, intellectual, and organizational
potential, with the goal of educating educators of the XXI century --
teachers of subjects or specializations, specialists in helping the
pupil and educational leaders of all levels. In the education of
educators, four main priorities are highlighted in the concept - the
development of educational research; improving the quality of study
programs for teacher training and increasing the supply; ensuring the
professional growth of educators and promoting partnerships.

Resolution: Approved guidelines for the University\'s language policy

Benefits for students:

- It is planned that the University\'s goal is to create conditions
    for students of the first cycle and integral study programs to learn
    at least one subject foreign language and to reach level C1;

- The university undertakes to ensure the possibility of learning at
    least another foreign language at the desired level (A1-B2);

- The guidelines enshrine the University\'s goal that the level of
    proficiency in English, Lithuanian as a foreign language or another
    language of academic staff should be at least C1;

- The plan for the implementation of the guidelines provides for the
    possibility for teachers(s) who teach in English to develop an
    individual language teaching and learning plan and to improve their
    language competences. Funds are also allocated for this in this
    year\'s University budget;

- The plan for the implementation of the guidelines provides for the
    creation of conditions for each student and lecturer from abroad to
    participate in the organized courses on the teaching and learning of
    Lithuanian as a foreign language.

Resolution: Regulations of Vilnius University science promotion fund
approved

Benefits for students:

- The concept of an international conference has been changed (the
    percentage of lecturers from abroad, and not participants from
    abroad, is taken into account);

- This creates greater conditions for applying for funding from the
    Science Promotion Fund and for student scientific conferences (e.g.,
    The COINS, Open Readings).

Resolution: Amendments to the Vilnius University Study Practice
Regulation approved

Benefits for students:

- VU CAU may have one head of practice (thus giving the opportunity
    that the practice manager\'s department does not remain, and it is
    headed only by the head of the practice in the organization);

- The unit will have to set a specific number of students under
    management per head of practice in order to ensure that the head of
    the practice is not one for the entire group or course of several
    dozen students(s);

- It will be possible to carry out internships not only individually,
    but also in groups;

- The classification of practices has been changed -- in addition to
    the expected internships in the study programs, other internships
    are divided into voluntary, Erasmus+ and targeted internships.

Resolution: The amendment of the duration of residency study programs in
the field of medical studies of the Faculty of Medicine of Vilnius
University has been approved

Benefits for students:

- The extension of the duration of study programs will enable the
    implementation of cascading competencies. Residents will have more
    opportunities or time to acquire practical skills.

Resolution: The description of the procedure for the preparation,
execution, and improvement of study programs of Vilnius University was
approved.

Benefits for students:

- Clearer process of preparation, execution and improvement of study
    programs;

- There is a provision that student representatives must be involved
    in the preparation of study programs.

Resolution: The guidelines for the preparation of the concept of the
study program to be carried out at Vilnius University have been approved

Benefits for students:

- The guidelines for the preparation of the program include a part of
    the development of general competencies in study programs;

- The updated guidelines reduce the load on the SP training group
    (which must include student representatives). After the approval of
    the guidelines, it will be possible to transfer part of the points
    directly to the description of the newly prepared study program.

## VU Rectorate

*Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė*

The Rectorate discusses all the most important issues of VU, submits
comments and comments from the departments before taking decisions and
submits conclusions to the VU Board, the Senate and the Rector, who
accepts them.

During the reference period, the Rectorate considered the VU Study
Regulations, even before submitting them to the Senate for approval,
reviewed the University\'s institutional assessment and recommendations,
the conclusions of the international attraction audit, according to
which later in the year a plan of measures for attracting international
students was also prepared. The Rectorate discussed the guidelines of
the University\'s language policy, the procedure for the implementation
of individual studies, the concept of inter-directional studies,
amendments to the provisions of competitions and attestations and the
methodology for assessing pedagogical competencies in the
admission-attestation commissions when considering pedagogical
nominations, as well as the policy of prevention of discrimination,
harassment, sexual harassment, violence and persecution of VU was
discussed before the approval. The President of VU SR, in turn, both
actively engaged in discussing the issues of concern to students in the
rectorate, and encouraged new discussions by presenting the results of
the research on the integration of freshmen and recommendations for the
improvement of the integration process and raising the issue of the
quality of internships and the additional costs incurred by students
during the internship.

## Commissions Formed by the Senate of Vilnius University

### VU Central Dispute Resolution Commission

*Student representatives -- Dominyka Goldbergaitė, Augustė Grakavinaitė,
Simonas Granskas*

The commission hears complaints about decisions of departmental dispute
resolution commissions and disputes between students and central
administration staff. During the reference period, 4 meetings were held,
during which 8 statements were considered.

### VU Central Commission for Academic Ethics

*Student representatives* *-- Laura Mackevič, Jorigis Jonas Marčėnas,
Dominyka Goldbergaitė (until April 2023), Martyna Pikelytė (from April
2023).*

The Commission investigates complaints from members of the academic
community about breaches of academic ethics. During the reference
period, 5 meetings of the commission were held, in which 4 applications
were examined.

### VU General University Studies (GUS) Commission

*Student representatives -- Augustė Grakavinaitė, Klėja Merčaitytė*

The GUS Commission is responsible for the implementation of the GUS
concept at the University, monitors the implementation of GUS subjects
and ensures their quality.

During the reference period, 5 meetings were held. During them, new and
updated GUS subjects, which are carried out in Lithuanian and English,
were examined, considered and approved. During this period, there was
also a review of GUS subjects: the oldest bus subjects were reviewed,
the feedback from students was analyzed, and comments were made to
update the subject descriptions. During the meetings, the analysis of
the GUS from 2021-2022 was presented and examined.

During the reference period, new GUSs were approved and submitted to the
Senate for consideration:

- Introduction to Climate Change: causes, consequences, and solutions

- Psychological features of personal finance decisions

- Media literacy

- Economic policy and economic stability of the European Union

- Anthropology: Social and Cultural Diversity

- Genocides. How to recognize and understand it?

During the reference period regularly reviewed, submitted for
adjustment, and updated GUSs:

- Starting a responsible business

### VU Central Electoral Commission

*Student representative -- Airina Mikulėnaitė*

The Central Electoral Commission -- responsible for the proper
organization of elections to the governing bodies of the University,
registration of elected members of the Senate and the Board, and
determination of the results of the rector\'s elections. If necessary,
the commission proposes to the Senate to improve the procedures for
elections to the governing bodies of the University.

During the reference period, 9 remote meetings of the Central Election
Commission were held. During the meetings, the compositions of the
election commissions of all the core academic units of Vilnius
University were approved, the candidates for the unfilled seats of the
Members of the Senate were registered, as well as the election schedules
for the seats of the Members of the Senate in the stem academic units
were approved and the voting results were approved.

### VU Emeritus, Affiliation and Honorary Names Commission

*Student representative - Julija Jarutytė*

The Commission considers and submits to the VU Senate for approval
nominations to receive the names of professor emeritus, affiliate
professor, associate professor, researcher and honorary doctor, alumni
or patron of Vilnius University.

During the reporting period, 3 meetings were held at which 9 nominations
were considered for the titles of Professor Emeritus (6 approved), 10
nominations for the title of aphiliate professor (10 approved), 4
nominations for the title of aphiliate scientist (4 approved), and the
title of honorary doctor was decided to be awarded to Koen Lenaerts.

## Commissions Formed By Order Of Rector Of Vilnius University

### VU Admission Commission

*Student representative -- Neda Žutautaitė*

The Commission considers and submits to the Rector of the University for
approval the nominations for academic positions of top-level staff --
professors and chief researchers. Considering student surveys, teaching
experience and planned academic activities, the student representative,
based on the data listed above, suggested that not all nominations be
approved. The Central Admissions Commission has considered a total of 59
nominations, 34 of which will be submitted to the Rector.

### VU One-Time Social Scholarship Distribution Commission

*Student representatives* *-- Ieva Budreikaitė, Dominyka Goldbergaitė,
Daniel Šematovič*

One-time social scholarships are support provided by the University to
students who are experiencing difficulties that have affected their
lives financially: severe illness of a student or relative, death of a
relative, disability and other special situations. During the reference
period, 3 meetings were held, and 604 basic social benefits were given
to students, i.e., 19 044 Eur distributed in the autumn semester and 9
996 Eur in the spring semester.

### VU One-Time Target Scholarship Distribution Commission

*Student representatives -- Daniel Šematovič, Einoras Tiškevičius*

One-time targeted scholarships are incentive support provided by the
University to students who actively participate in social, scientific,
cultural or sports activities and represent and promote the name of the
University through their achievements. During the reporting period, 2
meetings were held, and 719 basic social benefits were given to
students, i.e., 18 722 Eur distributed in the autumn semester and 15 288
Eur in the spring semester.

### VU Commission for Providing Pedagogical Titles of Professor and Associate Professor

*Student representative -- Klėja Merčaitytė*

The Commission considers and submits to the Senate for approval the
candidatures of teachers for the award of pedagogical titles. During the
reference period, one meeting of the commission was held, during which
candidates for the submission of pedagogical titles of VU professors and
associate professors were considered. On behalf of the commission, it
was proposed to give the VU Senate a pedagogical title to 48 people of
VU academic staff.

### VU Commission for the Recognition of The Best Teachers

Student representative - *Klėja Merčaitytė*

The Commission considers the activities of the candidates and makes
recommendations to the Rector on the recognition of candidates as the
best teachers of the year. Candidates from lecturers proposed by Vilnius
University students are provided by the administration of the core
academic unit together with the VU SR unit.

During the reference period, 1 meeting of the Commission was held.
During the meeting, 15 of the best lecturers of the University were
selected from the candidates nominated by the units, who were later
awarded the Rector\'s Prize.

The best teachers\' prizes of 2022 were awarded this year:

Rimantas Raudonis, Professor at the Faculty of Chemistry and
Geosciences;

Greta Drūeikienė, Professor at the Faculty of Economics and Business
Administration;

Deividas Zibalas, Assistant at the Faculty of Philology;

Birutė Švedaitė-Sakalauskienė, Associate Professor at the Faculty of
Philosophy;

Domas Paipulas, Associate Professor at the Faculty of Physics;

Radvilė Rimgailė - Voicik, Assistant at the Life Sciences Centre;

Genė Kirkienė, Associate Professor at the Faculty of History;

Robertas Kudirka, Associate Professor at the Kaunas Faculty;

Kęstas Kirtiklis, Associate Professor at the Faculty of Communication;

Adomas Bir6tunas, Assistant at the Faculty of Mathematics and
Informatics;

Rūta Bendinskaitė, Associate Professor at the Faculty of Medicine;

Jurgita Lenkauskaitė, Associate Professor at the Šiauliai Academy.

Vilius Bartninkas, Assistant at the Institute of International Relations
and Political Science;

Aurelijus Gutauskas, Professor at the Faculty of Law;

Ieva Bužienė, Associate Professor at the Business School.

### VU Study Quality Commission

Student representative -- *Julja Jarutytė*

The Commission was formed in accordance with the procedure for the
preparation, execution and improvement of VU Study Programs. This
commission is responsible for considering the plans for the improvement
of study fields, which are drawn up after an external expert assessment.
During the reference period, 3 meetings were held, during which 11 plans
for the improvement of study fields were considered (all improvement
plans were approved).

Improvement plans considered:

- Plan for the improvement of studies in the field of marketing;

- Plan for the improvement of studies in the field of environmental
    science;

- Plan for the improvement of studies in the field of information
    services;

- Plan for the improvement of studies in the field of ecology

- Plan for the improvement of studies in the field of literature;

- Plan for the improvement of studies in the field of biology;

- Plan for the improvement of studies in the field of history;

- Plan for the improvement of studies in the field of physics;

- Plan for the improvement of studies in the field of medical
    technology;

- Plan for the improvement of studies in the field of statistics;

- Plan for the improvement of studies in the field of business.

## Working Groups And Commissions Set Up For The Implementation Of The Strategic Plan Of Vilnius University For 2021-2025

### Working Group on the Renewal of the Quality Manager of Studies at VU

Student representative -- *Klėja Merčaitytė*

The working group was formed after the approval of the University\'s
strategic activity plan, which provided for the updating of the existing
head of quality of studies. The update of this guide focuses on the
refinement of the quality improvement system in studies, the detailing
of responsibilities, and the consistency with the provisions and
guidelines for quality assurance in Higher Education in Europe. The
student representative was involved in the search for agreements and
document preparation of internal study quality assurance processes and
procedures, responsibilities and commitments to quality assurance and
improvement of studies, as well as indicators that would allow to assess
the quality of studies to assess the quality of studies.

### VU Commission on Study Internationalization Initiatives

*Student representative - Kornelija Buivydaitė*

Applications for international initiatives have been submitted to the
Commission, after which a decision is taken on the allocation of funds
for their implementation. During the reference period, 4 meetings took
place, during which 44 submitted applications were examined, of which 21
were approved to finance. Additionally, the working regulations of the
commission were adjusted and a new strategy to improve information
dissemination among VU CAU, so that as many departments as possible are
involved in the creation of initiatives, was discussed.

### VU Commission for Educational Initiatives

*Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė*

The Commission of Educational Initiatives is a commission that
considers, approves and allocates funds for the initiatives of lecturers
aimed at improving the study process, subjects, their teaching,
increasing the involvement of students and implementing innovative
educational ideas, for which standard resources are not always
sufficient. This year, 13 applications and initiatives have been
approved by the Commission for Educational Initiatives 3 reports on the
initiatives implemented in previous years

### VU Pedagogue Training Development Committee

*Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė*

The Committee was formed in order to prepare the concept of pedagogue
education development at Vilnius University and ensure its
implementation.

During the reference period, the concept of pedagogue education at
Vilnius University was prepared and approved in the Senate. The
Committee approved the annual activity reports of the Institute of
Educational Sciences of the VU Faculty of Philosophy and the VU Šiauliai
Academy, the activity plans for 2023 and the intermediate results of the
pedagogue development project implemented at VU and their links with the
goals of the Concept of Pedagogue Education.

### Working Group on the Development of a Plan for the Implementation of The Open Science Policy Guidelines**

*Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė*

The working group on the development of a plan for the implementation of
the open science policy guidelines was formed after the Senate approved
open science policy documents. The Group is preparing a plan for
2023-2028, which will implement resolutions focused on increasing open
access to scientific (artistic) works and study thesis and research
data, standards for the exchange of open research data, evaluation of
scientific results, free and open-source software, open teaching
resources, infrastructure, and public engagement. In the context of the
working group, the plan is still in the process of preparation.

### VU Inter-Directional Studies Concept Development Working Group

*Student representative -- Neda Žutautaitė*

The working group was set up in order to develop the concept of
inter-directional studies at Vilnius University, on the basis of which
it would be possible to ensure interdisciplinarity and
interdirectionality in studies, which is based on the individualization
of studies. During the reference period, the working group prepared a
draft of the concept of interdirectional studies, which is currently
being considered in the VU Senate.

### VU Green Deal Preparation Working Group

*Student representative - Dominyka Goldbergaitė*

The goal of the VU Green Deal Preparation Working Group is to prepare
the Green Course of Vilnius University, which aims to become a
university striving for continuous sustainability, which would not only
reduce the negative impact on the environment arising from the ongoing
teaching, research and other functions, but would also become an example
for society in choosing a sustainable lifestyle. During the reference
period, 2 meetings of the working group took place, the year of which
the VU Green Deal was discussed and began to be prepared.

## Scholarship Committees and Working Groups

### VU 450th Anniversary Scholarship

Student representatives -- *Ieva Budreikaitė, Airina Mikulėnaitė, Ieva
Šiaudvytytė*

The VU 450th Anniversary Scholarship is a support provided by the
University to prospective students from socially vulnerable groups. 100
prospective students are paid a scholarship of 200 euros every month
from September to June in the first year of study in order to reduce the
problem of social exclusion. During the reference period, 1 meeting was
held, during which scholarships were awarded after examining the
applications submitted by future students.

### VU Tech Hub Scholarship Commission

Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė

Vilnius University Technology Hub (VU Tech Hub) has announced a
competition for a nominal scholarship for the best final thesis prepared
during studies. A grant of EUR 300 was awarded to the authors of the
final thesis in the following categories:

- \"Technological development of society\" -- for the best work
    exploring and presenting technological solutions that determine the
    development of society;

- \"Societal challenges in the age of new technologies\" -- for the
    best work exploring the impact of robotics, digitalization and
    artificial intelligence on the development of society and its
    institutes;

- \"Innovation for life\" -- for the best work that offers a
    technological solution to meet the needs of society;

- \"Best interdisciplinary work\" -- for the best work, which deals
    with topical complex problems and combines research methods in
    different fields of science.

During the reference period, 1 online meeting of the Commission was
held, where the winners were selected.

### VU Canadian Lithuanian Nominal Scholarship Commission

*Student representative -- Martyna Pikelytė*

The nominal scholarships of E. and V. Kadis, Lithuanians of Canada, are
awarded to more socially vulnerable (due to a difficult financial
situation, illness or death of loved ones) students of chemistry,
biochemistry, microbiology and medicine who are engaged in scientific
activities. During the reference period, 1 remote conference was held,
during which 3 scholarships were awarded to students.

## Regular Units, Committees And Commissions

### Representation of students of the third (doctoral) cycle of studies**

During the reference period, 4 joint meetings took place with doctoral
students, VU vice-rector of science, Doctorate and post-doctorate
department. During the meetings, we discussed the improvement of the
doctoral integration process, arising administrative, communication,
financial, workload accounting, work with supervisor(s), community
building problems in different doctorate directions were discussed.
Individual meetings with students of different fields of science were
also held, during which information gaps were filled and current
problems were solved. The group of doctoral students assembled last year
was joined by new people from different fields of science.

Three levels of action were used to solve the refined problems -
national, university, doctoral field. At the national level, we were
actively involved in the meetings of the Ministry of Education and
Culture, Parliament of the Republic of Lithuania working groups, where
PhD students were represented in matters of social guarantees (work
experience, maternity, paternity, sickness benefits, income during
academic leave, and ensuring the possibility of loans). At the
university level, there was active cooperation with the Doctoral and
Postdoctoral Department of VU regarding the organization of integration
for doctoral students, updating the survey for doctoral students,
expansion of transferable skills trainings' topics and courses taught in
English language. The meetings of the VU SR PhD students' group were
organized further this year, the issue of accountability for the use of
doctoral funds was raised in the Department Councils, and a mentoring
concept was developed together with the PhD students. At the level of
the doctoral field, planning is carried out together with the doctoral
students to solve specific problems at the departmental level.

### Study program committees

Study Program Committees (SPC) are academic entities coordinating study
programs and supervising their implementation. The SPC ensures the
integrity of the objectives of the study program, the developed
competencies, content, methods and assessments of student achievement
and improves the study program by analyzing the opinion of students,
lecturers, graduates, social partners and other indicators of the
quality of the implementation of study programs. The SPC consists of at
least 3 lecturers, at least 1 social partner and at least 1 student
representative.

In order to ensure effective representation of students in the SPC, the
competences of student representatives were raised: central and
departmental trainings were organized, where the students\'
representatives got acquainted with the activities of the SPC, the
results of the collection of opinions and meetings in simulations, and
the experience of other student representatives were familiarized. Since
this year changes in the introduction of individual studies were carried
out in all first cycle study programs, student representatives were
introduced to the concept of individual studies in the SPC and consulted
throughout the reference period. The representatives themselves
proactively engaged in the implementation of individual studies in each
program of each unit in order to ensure the smooth course of this
process. The students\' representatives also took a test made for them,
which allows them to consolidate the most important academic, structural
knowledge and concepts necessary for representation. During the
reference period, student representatives collected students\' opinions
by questionnaire, virtual target groups or a mixed method, and the
collected and systematized data were used and presented during the
meetings of the SPC. This year, a total of 435 meetings took place in
different VU CAU, the main agenda of which in all the SPCs of the first
cycle of studies was individual studies, and the postgraduate SPK --
from strategies for reducing the deprivation of students to changing the
forms of settlement. You can get acquainted with the statistics of each
VU CAU SPC meetings in more detail below:

| VU KAP        |      Number of SPC meetings    |  The main 3 topics that discussed |
| ------------- | :-----------: | :---- |
| **Faculty of Chemistry and Geosciences**      | 32 | 1. Individual studies <br> 2. Corrections, approval of descriptions of study subjects <br> 3. Consideration of the introduction of research work into the program  |
| **Faculty of Economics and Business Administration**      | 18 | 1. Individual studies <br> 2. Adjustment of the layout of the study grid <br> 3. Promotion of student feedback  |
| **Faculty of Philology**      | 72 | 1. Adaptation of the study program for the implementation of studies in English; <br> 2. Preparation, approval of new electives <br> 3. Attracting foreign students  |
| **Faculty of Philosophy**      | 57 | 1. Discussion of student feedback <br> 2. Corrections, approval of descriptions of study subjects <br> 3. Approval of the topics of final theses, commissions  |
| **Faculty of Physics**      | 20 | 1. Individual studies <br> 2. Adjustment of the layout of the study grid <br> 3. Deliberations on changes by teachers  |
| **Life Sciences Center**      | 22 | 1. Individual studies <br> 2. Attracting new lecturers <br> 3. Changing the number of contact hours for study subjects  |
| **Faculty of History**      | 15 | 1. Individual studies <br> 2. Consideration of the introduction of new study modules <br> 3. Approval of individual study plans for students  |
| **Kaunas Faculty**      | 34 | 1. Individual studies <br> 2. Final theses <br> 3. Adjustment of the layout of the study grid  |
| **Faculty of Communication**      | 43 | 1. Individual studies <br> 2. Adjustment of the layout of the study grid <br> 3. Increasing the supply of electives  |
| **Faculty of Mathematics and Informatics**      | 24 | 1. Individual studies <br> 2. Updating the descriptions of study subjects <br> 3. Adjustment of the layout of the study grid  |
| **Faculty of Medicine**      | 11 | 1. Individual studies <br> 2. Adjustment of assessment systems in individual study subjects <br> 3. The search for sponsors to finance students\' scientific works  |
| **Šiauliai Academy**      | 41 | 1. Individual studies <br> 2. Adjustment of the study grid <br> 3. Consideration of filming lectures  |
| **Institute of International Relations and Political Science**      | 9 | 1. Improvement of study programs taking into account student feedback <br> 2. The question of the demise of students <br> 3. Changes to settlement formats  |
| **Faculty of Law**      | 3 | 1. Individual studies <br> 2. Unification of assessment systems between study subjects <br> 3. Updating the descriptions of study subjects  |
| **Business School**      | 34 | 1. Individual studies <br> 2. Updating the descriptions of study subjects <br> 3. Considerations of greater attraction of foreign students  |

### Meetings of Vice-Deans of Academic Affairs

Student representative -- *Klėja Merčaitytė*

During the meetings of the Vice-Deans of Academic Affairs, conclusions
and recommendations for improving the University\'s study activities are
prepared. These meetings are attended by all deputy heads of core
academic units of the University responsible for studies and
representatives of students.

During the reference period, 11 meetings were held, during which the
processes of individualization of studies were discussed, the documents
submitted related to studies and other relevant issues were discussed,
the description of the procedure for the preparation, execution and
improvement of study programs, the Description of the Procedure for the
Implementation of Individual Studies and Electives (Modules) at Vilnius
University, the Concept of Interdirectional Studies, the Plan for the
Implementation of VU International Student Attraction Measures, the
Language Policy guidelines, there was a discussion about promoting
feedback in the study process.

### Advisory Committee on the Appointment of VU Partnership Professors and Associate Professors of Partnership

*Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė*

The Committee shall submit an opinion to the Rector of VU on the award
of positions of VU partnership professors and associate professors of
partnership. These positions allow lectures at Vilnius University to be
given to famous Lithuanian business representatives, diplomats and other
specialists in their fields who hold managerial positions or have
extensive practical work experience.

During the reference period, 47 applicants were assessed as meeting the
requirements for partnership professors and associate professors of
partnership and were offered appointment to these positions.

## Temporary Working Groups

### VU Student Services Working Group

Student representatives - *Dominyka Goldbergaitė, Klėja Merčaitytė*

The aim of the Student Services Working Group is to refine all services
provided by VU to community members, to analyze the model of services
provided by foreign universities. The aim is to optimize the services
currently provided, as some of them are provided by different
departments or centers and do not reach the target audience. During the
reference period, 2 meetings were held during which an inventory of all
services provided by VU and VU SA for students was made and the services
were categorized.

### VU Emotional Well-being Working Group

Student representatives -- Dominyka Goldbergaitė, Julija Jarutytė, Neda
Žutautaitė

The Emotional Well-being Working Group was set up to create a system for
ensuring emotional well-being at the University. During the reference
period, the working group examined the services currently provided to
students, which contribute to the creation of emotional well-being at
the University and considered their possible development. The student
representatives paid the greatest attention to the services and measures
aimed at mental health promotion at the University, expressed the need
to carry out constant monitoring of emotional well-being among students
and to have clearly known to all members of the community the mechanisms
for overcoming problem situations and responding to crisis cases.

### VU Working group for changing scholarship regulations

*Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė*

A working group has been set up at VU to update the Scholarship
Regulations in order to review the currently existing forms of student
support, to make the current distribution of scholarships more
effective, to provide for targeted new forms of scholarships for both
support and promotion.

The work of the group is continuous, improvements are planned at the
current time in the award of incentive scholarships, changing the
procedure for disbursing the scholarship and not providing for two
different amounts. A new scholarship model is also being developed for
the expansion of support, designed for students on the lowest incomes,
so that they can study and achieve academic results instead of working,
providing monetary support throughout the year with a fixed amount of
support on a monthly basis, and when certain achievements are achieved,
with additional incentives. During the reporting period, the procedures
for adapting the amendments were carried out and the final version of
the provisions was prepared.
