---
outline: [2,3]
---

# Community-building events

## International Student Day and VU SR 33rd birthday

On November 17th of each year, International Student Day and VU SR\'s
birthday are celebrated. This year VU SR implemented the festival
\"Studentify\", dedicated to the celebration of international student
day.

## International students\' day festival \"STUDENTIFY\"

During the festival, students were able to participate in
familiarization games, workshops and initiatives were held, during which
the VU Hikers\' Club participated, the VU SR program \"Without Labels\",
which presented a workshop for printing linen carvings, the Green Policy
Institute organized the \"Battle of Sustainable Minds\". During the
festival, students were able to make tabs for their books and
participate in the initiative \"One VU, many faces\".

There was a discussion with VU alumni \"Per aspera ad astra\", during
which alumni shared their experiences and memories of the university.
The discussion was attended by JuliusVaicenavičius, a musician,
producer, leader of the group \"Kūjeliai\", founder of \"Why school\";
Kristina Pocytė, who graduated from VU Bachelor of Journalism, Delfi
journalist; director of the Institute of Biosciences of VU GMC,
professor, chairwoman of the Senate of Vilnius University prof. Eglė
Lastauskienė. The discussion was moderated by Augustė Lyberytė, a
journalist who graduated from the Institute of International Relations
and Political Science with a bachelor\'s degree in political science.

The evening concluded with the student band Plank\'s Firewood and the
authentic Latino song group Planeta Polar.

Also, on November 14th-18th, students of Vilnius University were able to
take advantage of various discounts in the health club \"The Royal
Athletic Club\", the cinema \"Pasaka\", the bookstore \"Mint Vinetu\",
the zoo \"Zoopark\" and the bakery \" Margas košėlas\".

**This year, we can celebrate three more events that promoted the
principles of greenery, united students(s) and encouraged the creation
of new initiatives.**

## VUnity event promoting solidarity

After a two-year break, the event \"VUnity\", which unites students and
promotes solidarity, returned, which took place on March 2 at the OPERA
social house. During the event, presentations from different countries
could be heard, stereotypes of countries were discussed, a battle of the
minds of different cultures took place, during the evening students had
the opportunity to get to know the traditions of different countries, to
spend more time in an intercultural environment.

## Greenery festival \"Cool the heat\"

For the first time, the event \"Cool the heat\", which responds to the
principles of Greenery, was held, which took place on March 29th at the
VU in Saulėtekis campus. Throughout the festival, there were many
activities: interactive workshops, a fair of sustainable goods and live
musical performances.

The Green Policy Institute invited to participate in the green brain
battle and practical tasks, the participants of the program \"Create
Lithuania\" presented the results of the study on food waste in
Lithuania and shared tips on how to avoid food waste in everyday life,
the VU SR GMC team organized a paper reuse workshop. The program \"Be
etikečių\", VU Young Energetics Club organized linen carvings and plant
transplant workshops, community members made wax canvases, talked about
vegetarian and vegan diets. The aim is to encourage every member of the
community to consciously incorporate sustainability principles into
their daily lives.

## HACK VU

On February 25th, for the second time, an initiative development event
at HACK VU was organized, during which students developed future ideas
that could help solve the challenges faced by students at the
University.

VU SR, in turn, proposed ideas to which it encouraged the registered
participants to join: the connection of students at the university, the
dissemination of students\' scientific activities and science, academic
ethics, mental health, the involvement of students with n disabilities,
the involvement of foreign students, gender equality.

## Days of core academic units

One of the largest events organized by VU SR are the days of the
departments, which last for an impressively long time and have become an
important and beautiful tradition that promotes the community spirit of
the whole unit and the preservation of student traditions. This year,
nine days of departments offered students cycles of various events.

### Nights of Philologists

The community of the Faculty of VU SR FilF was invited to participate in
the **Nights of Philologists,** from the excursion-lecture \"Evening of
Stories\", where the dean of the Faculty of History of VU shared various
stories about the university and the former everyday life of students(
s), brain battle and discussion-writing workshops, during which Povilas
Elijas Martynenko shared, \"Can art be a career?\" In the evening, the
orienteering competition \"Capture The Flag\", a language school, took
place, and everything was finished by the already traditional evening of
bards \"Open Mic\", where the participants read the texts of their
creations, performed singing poetry.

### IfDi\'45

For historians, lovers of history and the past and the entire community
of the Faculty of History of VU, VU SR IF organized **IFDi\'45**, during
which they invited to participate in the Korp!tilia discussion \"About
Reading\", in the battle of the minds, in the football matches that have
become a tradition, to immerse themselves in history was invited not for
the first time by the IF Theater \"Locked Up Ūbas\" and the entire
crowning evening of the community. During the Historians\' Days, members
of the Faculty of History community were interviewed and IFDI\'45
nominations were prepared. Also, this year, the IFDI militia, combined
with the Historic European Martial Arts (HEMA) Club, organized an attack
on the traditional FIDI procession of a dinosaur.

### Mercury Days

At the **Mercury Days** organized by VU SR EVAF, this year the community
was invited to gather and participate in car orienteering competitions
\"Mercury\" and board games and poker tournaments.

### Days of Chemists

During the 57th **Days of Chemists**, VU SR CHGF organized a series of
lectures, during which one could hear assoc. prof. dr. Rimantas Vaitkus,
prof. dr. Edvinas Orenta, as well as Marius Dzvinka and Greta
Tamoliūnaitė. The days of chemists have their own unique and beautiful
history, so on the occasion of the 57th faculty days, an exhibition was
held where it was possible to learn about the events of the Chemists\'
Days that took place earlier, how the logo of the days of chemists
appeared, about successes and failures. A public colorful chemical show
was also organized for the public, and a bowling tournament and a BBQ
evening were also held for the community. The events showed that
different generations, even those who have already graduated, are
perfectly capable of communicating, having a good time and building a
future together!

### TeDi\'23

This year, **during the opening conference of TeDi\'23** (Lawyers\' Day)
\"Is it right for You?\" lekt. dr. Monika Ambrasaitė-Valentinavičienė,
dokt. Jurgis Bartkus and students Martynas Zdanavičius and Kamilė
Paleckytė talked about experiences and helped future students to get a
more realistic impression of law studies and their daily life. The
second event is night car orienteering. The third event -- \"Auction\"
and the closing evening gave all participants the opportunity to
experience unforgettable moments together with the faculty teachers.
This year, during the auction of Lawyers\' Days, a record amount was
collected - 1929 euros, which are intended to help Ukraine. Lawyers\'
Days were closed by the final conference of VU TF SMD, which brought
together Vilnius University legal and other researchers, students and
other legal science enthusiasts, providing an opportunity to review the
scientific achievements of this year\'s students by examining
interdisciplinarity in law.

### Fiesta personae

The annual spring revival of the Faculty of Philosophy Days event is the
**Fiesta personae.** "Is the death penalty justified?"; haiku creative
evening \"In Search of the Muse\"; the event \"Laughter through Tears\"
of the Institute of Psychology, during which participants were invited
to write anonymous letters, and they were commented on by a psychology
specialist with a comedian; it was possible to visit the philosophy
workshop \"What is this creativity?\"; in art therapy, as well as in the
Institute of Sociology and Social Work at the event \"Stereotypical Name
of the event\", during which it was possible to empathize with and
understand the influence and impact of stereotypes in the form of a
game. And everything was crowned by the closing evening \"Musica in
igne\", where \"Quarta\", \"Citrusss\", \"Skepetas\" performed. As
always, during the days of the faculty, the newspaper \"Bursų kiemas\"
was also published.

### ATSIbusk

The Faculty of Philosophy also organizes \"**ATSIbusk**\" -- an event of
the Institute of Asian and Transcultural Studies (ATSI) of the Faculty
of Philosophy of Vilnius University, the history of which began in the
early spring of 2019, when various events, lectures and practical
seminars were organized on the initiative of students(s). This year,
ATSIbusk delighted with various events: in the workshops of Origami,
Indian dance, Qigong, Calligraphy, Henna tattoos, Furoshiki. It was also
possible to attend lectures about the indigenous peoples of Taiwan, to
get acquainted with the South Korean alphabet (hangul). The participants
were also delighted with the tasting of Middle Eastern delicacies and
*speed friending*, which was held in English. This year, ATSIbusk has
attracted a lot of interest not only from participants, but also from a
wide variety of companies.

### MeDi\'22

**MeDi** is a traditional festivity of the Faculty of Medicine of
Vilnius University that has been celebrated since 1783 -- one of the
oldest at Vilnius University. The theme of MeDi\'22 is \"A biomedical
student more than a stereotype.\" The series of events aimed to show how
diverse the members of the medical faculty community can be, while
strengthening the community weakened after the pandemic and providing
the necessary tools to ensure psychological well-being. During the
MeDi\'22 events, more than 500 members of the community were reached and
involved in the activities, and the majority (as many as 16) of the
activities actively involved foreign students who did not make up a
small part of the faculty community. Art therapy workshops, an evening
of poetry, a group meditation \"Exhale, inhale\", basketball and
volleyball tournaments made a significant contribution to the promotion
of the mental health of faculty members, and the discussion \"Break
stereotypes\" allowed to hear from the lips of graduates the stereotypes
that are most often encountered. We are also proud of the cooperation:
together with the Association of Student Dentists, the skills of
developing solid competencies for dental students were organized, and
with the Lithuanian Medical Students\' Association -- nursing practical
skills formation activities for all members of the faculty community.

### The Information Days

**The Information Days** this year were delighted with the discussions
that are being organized. One of the discussions is \"GO VILNIUS: How to
stand out from the crowd?\" with Karolis Šimkus. The second disscusion
\"Objectivity: Utopia or Reality?\" together with Birutė Davidonytė and
Aleksandra Katlerienė. The third is \"Is Social Media Life-Changing?\"
with Paul de Miko and Viktorija Šaulytė-Mockė.

### VeDi

Business Days (**VeDi)** came back this year and started their series of
events with the opening discussion \"Future Business\", which was
attended by VU VM Director Dr. Birutė Miškinienė, EY Talent Selection
Team Manager Vaidonė Eidukonienė and former VM lecturer Taurimas Valys,
later everyone was waiting for an orienteering competition, and the
closing evening -- the battle of the mind -- finished everything.

### PoDi

During the Days of Political Scientists (**PoDi**), the week-long events
revived the old traditions of students, remembered the past and brought
innovations. Three podcast series under *po(p)litika*, a discussion
\"How different make us stronger?\", an orienteering competition around
the Old Town of Vilnius, *speed laguage learning*, during which students
were able to gain new knowledge and had the opportunity to speak in
different languages, basketball competitions that brought together
students, teachers, administration and even members of the Seimas, an
event that encourages you to talk publicly about important things
without hesitation, loudly, standing on a barrel, IIRPS talent show and
community evening, during which the jazz group \"Savi\", \"Palmės
Ringas\", Lukas Pilkuskas and the legendary PoDi herds appeared!

### MIDI

The largest days of Mathematicians and Informatics organized by **VU SR
MIF** returned with incredible force and invited all students and guests
of the city to participate in various events. This year there were
orienteering competitions, a chess tournament, sports days, a corporate
fair, a brainstorming, a closing night, a return of a poker tournament,
and the LAN Party lasted as long as 3 days, one of which was dedicated
to Minecraft decathlon. First held in 1976, this year MIDI was organized
for the 42nd time.

### Kaunas Faculty Days

This year, for the first time, **Kaunas Faculty days** were organized,
during which it was possible to enjoy the orienteering competitions
around the Old Town, the football game of financial terms, the evening
of computer and board games, and the whole thing was completed with an
evening of BBQ and HOUSE music.
